procedures: update admin docs for storage classes, storage strategies and storage size (#2536)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/configuring-che-storage-size.adoc

> :_content-type: CONCEPT

Reviewer: Correct me if I'm wrong, this seems to be a procedure:
```suggestion
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
```

:description: Configuring the storage size in {prod-short}
:keywords: administration guide, configuring, {prod-id-short}, storage size, PVC size, pvc

> :navtitle: Configuring the storage size in {prod-short}

Reviewer: If you update the `id` and `=` title below, the `:description:` (line 2) and `:navtitle:` (line 4) values have to be updated too to be the same as the `=` title.

:page-aliases: installation-guide:configuring-che-storage-size.adoc

[id="configuring-{prod-id-short}-workspace-pvc-size"]

> = Configuring the storage size in {prod-short}

Author: Not sure, but it might be a bit redundant to say "in Che/DevSpaces" since this is the Che/DevSpaces docs.

Reviewer: Yes, we can avoid mentioning Che/DevSpaces when it's self-explanatory to our readers.

> [id="configuring-{prod-id-short}-workspace-pvc-size"]
> = Configuring the storage size in {prod-short}

Reviewer: The `id` and the `=` heading have to be the same (except for the lowercase dashed syntax).
I see there's a sibling page with the heading that reads "[Configuring storage classes](https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/stable/administration-guide/installing-che-using-storage-classes/)".

Also, our convention is for the file name to be the same as the `id`.
Feel free to change the file names, just beware of having to update all the `xref`s to the updated file names in the other files in this PR, esp. in `modules/administration-guide/nav.adoc` and `modules/administration-guide/pages/configuring-storage.adoc`.

For example (and not sure if `size` should be singular or plural here):
```suggestion
[id="configuring-storage-size"]
= Configuring storage size
```

> The persistent volume claim (PVC) size can be configured when using the `per-user` or `per-workspace` storage strategies. PVC sizes in the Che Cluster Custom Resource must be specified in the format of a https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/[{kubernetes} resource quantity]. For more details on the available storage strategies, see xref:configuring-che-storage-strategy.adoc[]

Reviewer: We use the `link:` variation of AsciiDoc syntax.

We need to use active voice rather than passive voice where possible.
Also, we need to focus on the reader and write to the second person, `you`,  or use the imperative form `[do] [this]`.

For example, assuming the proposed changes are still technically correct:
```suggestion
You can configure the persistent volume claim (PVC) size when using the `per-user` or `per-workspace` storage strategies. You must specify the PVC sizes in the `CheCluster` Custom Resource in the format of a link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/[{kubernetes} resource quantity]. For more details on the available storage strategies, see xref:configuring-che-storage-strategy.adoc[].
```

> .Default persistent volume claim sizes:

Reviewer: FYI, we have an [online guide about modular docs](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#con-creating-procedure-modules_writing-mod-docs).

We reserve the `._<Heading>_` syntax for three sections in a procedure module:
`.Prerequisites` (only if any are included, otherwise omitted)
`.Procedure`
`.Additional resources`  (only if any are included, otherwise omitted)

So I suggest removing the `.` and making that line plain text:
```suggestion
Default persistent volume claim sizes:
```

> * `per-user`: `10Gi`
> * `per-workspace`: `5Gi`

Reviewer: AsciiDoc offers some advanced options. You can try this if you want:
```suggestion
* {empty}
+
[source,yaml]
----
per-user: 10Gi
----

* {empty}
+
[source,yaml]
----
per-workspace: 5Gi
----
```
BTW, here's the lengthy AsciiDoc documentation, so it might be handy for you to bookmark this link for future reference:
https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/

> .Procedure

Reviewer: After this point, we need a numbered list.
In AsciiDoc, the numbers can also be added automatically, so you can just start each step as follows (dot, space, sentence) without worrying about putting the correct numbers on the steps:
`. This is a sentence for step 1.`
`. This is a sentence for step 2.`
`. This is a sentence for step 3.`

Author: As it currently stands, the pages on configuring the storage strategy and configuring the storage size only have a single step. Should I still be using the `.Procedure` heading?

> Use CheCluster Custom Resource definition to define the persistent volume claim size for the desired storage strategy:

Reviewer: This sentence appears to summarize the use case and if so, then it belongs in the intro paragraph or two that currently starts on line 10.

Author: For now, I'm going to remove this sentence as it doesn't seem to add any extra information that the first paragraph doesn't already have.

> Set the appropriate `claimSize` field for the desired storage strategy in the Che Cluster Custom Resource. To set this field prior to installing {prod-short}, see xref:using-chectl-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource-during-installation.adoc[], otherwise consult xref:using-the-cli-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource.adoc[].

Reviewer: WIP

You can move the second sentence into an admonition (NOTE/TIP/IMPORTANT/WARNING) if the info is not one of the steps.

```suggestion
. Set the appropriate `claimSize` field for the desired storage strategy in the Che Cluster Custom Resource:

[NOTE]
====

* You can set this field at installation. See xref:using-chectl-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource-during-installation.adoc[].

* You can update this field on the command line. See xref:using-the-cli-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource.adoc[].

====
```

> [source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
> ----
> spec:
>   devEnvironments:
>     storage:
>       pvc:
>         # the claimSize field that will be used depends on the selected pvcStrategy
>         # in this example, a persistent volume claim size of 15Gi will be used as the selected pvcStrategy is 'per-user'
>         pvcStrategy: 'per-user'
>         perUserStrategyPvcConfig:
>           # keep blank unless you need to use a non default persistent volume claim size
>           claimSize: 15Gi
>         perWorkspaceStrategyPvcConfig:
>           # keep blank unless you need to use a non default persistent volume claim size
>           claimSize: 2Gi      
> ----

Reviewer: Rather than use in-block comments, AsciiDoc allows us to mark lines with numbered callouts and then add legends for the callout numbers under the block:
```suggestion
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
spec:
  devEnvironments:
    storage:
      pvc:
        pvcStrategy: '__<strategy_name>__'  <1>
        perUserStrategyPvcConfig: <2>
          claimSize: __<size_number>__Gi
        perWorkspaceStrategyPvcConfig:  <3>
          claimSize: __<size_number>__Gi
----
<1> Select the storage strategy: `per-user` or * `per-workspace` or `ephemeral`.
<2> Specify a claim size on the next line or omit the next line to set the default claim size value. The specified claim size is only used when you select this storage strategy.
<3> Specify a claim size on the next line or omit the next line to set the default claim size value. The specified claim size is only used when you select this storage strategy.
```

Please double-check whether the callout numbers in my suggestion above are on the correct lines. If not, then please edit this suggestion and move the callout numbers to the relevant lines.

Is there a `ephemeralStrategyPvcConfig` line? Or does `ephemeral` strategy not need such a line? Either way, please add this info explicitly.

Do these fields support only `Gi`? Do they support other units? If so, please let me know in the comments below.

Author: > Please double-check whether the callout numbers in my suggestion above are on the correct lines.

They are correct :) Though, since callout `<2>` and `<3>` are the same, maybe we can get rid of callout `<3>` and reuse callout `<2>` twice? 

> Is there a `ephemeralStrategyPvcConfig` line? Or does `ephemeral` strategy not need such a line? Either way, please add this info explicitly.

There is no `ephemeralStrategyPvcConfig` (as ephemeral implies non-persistent storage, i.e. all stored files will be deleted when the workspace is stopped). I added a note regarding this in the first callout:

```asciidoc
<1> Select the storage strategy: `per-user` or * `per-workspace` or `ephemeral`. Note: the `ephemeral` storage strategy does not use persistent storage, therefore you cannot configure its storage size or other PVC-related attributes.
```

Not sure if this info should be a part of the callout, or somewhere else. I think having it as part of the callout makes sense, however

> 
> Do these fields support only `Gi`? Do they support other units? If so, please let me know in the comments below.

Other units are supported as they are [Kubernetes resource quantities](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/). I find the documentation Kubernetes provides to be a little confusing, however, so I consulted some other explanations of the units available for storage sizes. 

[This page](https://medium.com/swlh/understanding-kubernetes-resource-cpu-and-memory-units-30284b3cc866) gives a nice breakdown, see the "Memory Units" section.

## To summarize the storage size units:
Storage sizes are defined in bytes. There are 4 different ways of specifying the number of bytes for the storage size.

### Explicit Integer
You can define the size as an explicit integer to specify the exact number of bytes, e.g. `128974848`

### Exponent
You can use exponent notation using `e`, for example: `129e6`, this results in some rounding and is an approximation of the value you enter. 

### Fixed-point suffix

The following fixed-point suffixes are available, and are similar to storage units we typically use on consumer hardware (e.g. hardrives, flash drives, etc): `E, P, T, G, M, K`

- E = Exabyte. 1E = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes
- P = Petabyte. 1P = 1,000,000,000,000,000 bytes
- T = Terabyte. 1T = 1,000,000,000,000 bytes
- G = Gigabyte. 1G = 1,000,000,000 bytes
- M = Megabyte. 1M = 1,000,000 bytes
- K = Kilobyte. 1K = 1,000 bytes

### Binary, Power-of-Two Suffix

The following power-of-two suffixes are available:  `Ei, Pi, Ti, Gi, Mi, Ki` (it seems you can also add a trailing B, e.g. `EiB, PiB, TiB, GiB, MiB, KiB`, though this detail can probably be ignored for simplicity)

- Ei = EiB = Exbibyte. 1Ei = 2⁶⁰ = 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes
- Pi = PiB = Pebibyte. 1Pi = 2⁵⁰ = 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes
- Ti = TiB = Tebibyte. 1Ti = 2⁴⁰ = 1,099,511,627,776 bytes
- Gi = GiB = Gibibyte. 1Gi = 2³⁰ = 1,073,741,824 bytes
- Mi = MiB = Mebibyte. 1Mi = 2²⁰ = 1,048,576 bytes
- Ki = KiB = Kibibyte. 1Ki = 2¹⁰ = 1,024 bytes

### Thoughts on storage size units:
- In practice, I don't think users will use explicit integers or exponent notation for specifying sizes. The most commonly used size unit that I've seen is binary power-of-two suffix notation, though fixed-point suffix notation seems reasonable to use as it is more commonly seen on consumer storage hardware. 
- Since the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/) on resource quantity is a bit confusing IMO, it may be worth having the above information explicitly stated in the Che docs? Either on the configuring storage size page, or as a separate docs page.
